PAGES 5

--- PAGE 1 ---

Ton Duc Thang University 
Faculty of Information Technology 
504048 - Mining Massive Data Sets nguyenthanhan@tdtu.edu.vn 1/5 
 
 
ENDTERM PROJECT 
Course: Mining Massive Data Sets 
Duration: 06 weeks 
I. Formation 
 The project is conducted in groups of students. 
 Student groups conduct designated tasks and submit the project by the given 
deadline. 
II. Requirements 
1) Task 1 (3.0 point(s)): Hierarchical clustering in non-Euclidean spaces 
Implement the task in Task01.ipynb, distributed computation is required in this task. 
Data: (1.0 point(s)) 
 (0.25 point(s)) Generate a data set of about 10000 alphabetical strings whose lengths 
are picked randomly in the range [32, 64]. Cases are not sensitive. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Apply the 4-shingle technique to tokenize each string into a set. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Jaccard distance is used to measure shingle sets’ dissimilarity. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Save the generated data set in a csv file with columns: index, string, 
shingles. 
Algorithms: (1.5 point(s)) 
 Implement the agglomerative algorithm (bottom-up) to cluster strings. 
o Algorithm structure: agglomerative clustering 
o Data space: Euclidean 
o Memory usage: in-memory algorithm 
o Propose a distance threshold t such that clusters can be merged if and only if 
their distance does not exceed t. 
 (1.0 point(s)) Cluster representation and cluster distance approaches follow Approach 
2 of Hierarchical clustering in non-Euclidean space presented in the corresponding 
lecture. 
 (0.25 point(s)) The algorithm terminates when a cluster diameter suddenly jumps. 
Students propose an approach to detect this abnormal event. 

--- PAGE 2 ---

Ton Duc Thang University 
Faculty of Information Technology 
504048 - Mining Massive Data Sets nguyenthanhan@tdtu.edu.vn 2/5 
 
 
 (0.25 point(s)) Organize the program regarding to the OOP model, ensure source code 
is compact and reasonable. 
Experiments: (0.5 point(s)) 
 (0.25 point(s)) Execute the algorithm throughout iterative steps. 
o For each cluster, compute the average distance between pairs of points, 
avg_dist value. 
o Compute the average of all avg_dist values of clusters, named 
global_avg_dist. 
o Draw a line chart to illustrate the improvement of global_avg_dist throughout 
steps. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Use t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) algorithm 
to visualize the clustering result in a 3D space. 
2) Task 2 (3.0 point(s)): Linear Regression – Gold price prediction 
Implement the task in Task02.ipynb, distributed computation is required in this task. 
Data: (0.5 point(s)) 
 Given a data set of gold prices in Vietnam, collected from 2009/08/01 to 2025/01/01, 
in the gold_prices.csv file. 
 Columns include [Date, Buy Price, Sell Price]. 
 Use PySpark to read the given data set and transform it into a data frame. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Generate samples with features and labels as below 
o Features: gold prices of 15 consecutive previous dates of the date t, 
o Label: the gold price of the date t. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Divide samples randomly into two sets, including training and test, with 
the ratio 7:3. 
Algorithms: (1.5 point(s)) 
 (0.5 point(s)) Students are allowed to use the existing Linear Regression model of 
PySpark instead of manually implementing. 
pyspark.ml.regression.LinearRegression 
 (1.0 point(s)) Use PySpark to implement the CUR algorithm, in form of a class, to 
reduce dimensionality of feature vectors from 15 to 5 with the step size of 1. 

--- PAGE 3 ---

Ton Duc Thang University 
Faculty of Information Technology 
504048 - Mining Massive Data Sets nguyenthanhan@tdtu.edu.vn 3/5 
 
 
 Students are allowed to use the RowMatrix library of PySpark 
pyspark.mllib.linalg.distributed.RowMatrix 
Experiments: (1.0 point(s)) 
 (0.25 point(s)) Infer the new representation (row embedding) for each feature vector 
in the training and test sets. 
 Train and evaluate linear regression models in the pairs of training and test sets. 
o (0.25 point(s)) Draw a line chart to illustrate training losses in experiments (a 
single chart only with multiple loss curves). 
o (0.25 point(s)) Draw a twin-bar chart to contrast the results in the training and 
test sets in experiments (a single chart only with multiple twin-bars). 
 (0.25 point(s)) Experiments are implemented in form of classes with configurations as 
parameters instead of replicating blocks of code. 
3) Task 3 (3.0 point(s)): Collaborative Filtering for Recommendation 
Implement the task in Task03.ipynb, distributed computation is required in this task. 
Data: (0.5 point(s)) 
 Given a dataset of ratings in ratings2k.csv. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Each user profile is represented as a vector u of ratings of items. 
 u[it] = 0 means the user u has not tried/voted the item it yet. It does not mean u does 
not like it (negative). 
 (0.25 point(s)) Propose a distance metric to measure the similarity between two users, 
in which ensure that 0s do not mean ‘negative’. 
Algorithms: (1.5 point(s)) 
 Implement the Collaborative Filtering algorithm to predict the rating of a user u for an 
item it. 
o (0.5 point(s)) Propose an approach to two “quickly” determine users that are 
most similar (close) to u without enumerating the whole data set. The time 
complexity of O(1) in average is expected. 
o (0.5 point(s)) Implement the  proposed approach and integrate it into the 
processing pipeline of the Collaborative Filtering algorithm. 
o (0.25 point(s)) Compute the predicted rating based on user-user similarity. 

--- PAGE 4 ---

Ton Duc Thang University 
Faculty of Information Technology 
504048 - Mining Massive Data Sets nguyenthanhan@tdtu.edu.vn 4/5 
 
 
 (0.25 point(s)) Organize the program regarding to the OOP model, ensure source code 
is compact and reasonable. 
Experiments: (1.0 point(s)) 
 (0.25 point(s)) Divide the given data set into training and test sets. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Conduct experiments with various values of N. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Draw a bar chart to contrast RMSE values resulted by selected values 
of N. 
 (0.25 point(s)) Compare the running time (in the same hardware configurations) when 
running the algorithm with versus without the proposed approach of determining 
similar users. 
4) Task 4 (1.0 point(s)): Report 
 Student groups compose the project report using the IEEE conference proceeding 
template. 
 Recommended editor: Overleaf. 
 Selective contents: 
o Title: the project title 
o Authors: group member’s information, the lecturer is appended as the last 
author. 
o Abstract: summarize the project requirements, approaches, experimental 
results, and levels of completion. 
o Each following section presents a task in the project, with a meaningful and 
human-readable title. Briefly introduce the approach to tackle the problem and 
illustrate results with related figures/tables, etc. 
o “Contributions” section: individual tasks, individual completion levels (0% - 
100%). 
o “Self-evaluation” section: self-evaluate task completion and estimate scores. 
o “Conclusion” section: summarize the project requirements, approaches, 
experimental results, and levels of completion. 
 References are in the IEEE format. 
 Maximal length is 05 pages. 

--- PAGE 5 ---

Ton Duc Thang University 
Faculty of Information Technology 
504048 - Mining Massive Data Sets nguyenthanhan@tdtu.edu.vn 5/5 
 
 
III. Submission Notice 
- Create a folder whose name is like 
final_<Project group ID>_<your student ID> 
o Source/: consists of the project source code, each task is implemented in an 
individual sub-directory, preserving the outputs of all cells in ipynb files, output 
files as well. 
o Report/: report source (exported from Overleaf), report.pdf file. 
- Compress the folder as a zip file and submit by the deadline. 
- Every team member must submit the project individually. 
IV. Policy 
- Student groups submitting late get 0.0 points for each member. 
- Copying source code on the internet/other students, sharing your work with other 
groups, etc., cause 0.0 points for all related groups. 
- If there exist any signs of illegal copying or sharing of the assignment, then extra 
interviews are conducted to verify student groups’ work. 
-- THE END -- 
